Welcome to interviewing for
front end engineers.
I chose Comic Sans because that's
what interviews often are.
They're kind of silly, they're arbitrary.
There's no set of standards or rules and
practices that you walk to an interview,
you say I know exactly
what is gonna happen,
or I know exactly the type of
questions they're gonna ask.
No, it's random.
How many ping pong balls
can fit on a school bus?
Yeah, we've all been asked
weird questions like that.
Some of you out there froze up for
a minute.
You're like, ten ping pong,
no, there's 20 people.
Not a real question.
Don't worry, I'm not gonna ask any of
those sort of kinda trivia questions.
What I really wanna get to is solving this
problem of arbitrary questions during
front end interviewing.
Or walking into an interview and
not knowing what's gonna happen,
what the steps are.
Especially people who have never
interviewed, particularly for
a front end role,
you don't know what to expect.
We're gonna cover all of that today.
But really, what I wanna set up is a
rubric of how front end interviews should
go, the type of questions
you should be asking.
Sound good?
All right, my name is Jem Young,
I am a senior software engineer.
Let's see,
my superhero origin story would be
curiosity was how I was
born as an engineer.
Startups were where I was incubated.
Netflix for the past four years,
been my forge.
But teaching is my whetstone.
Keeps me sharp.
Cuz you spend too long at one job,
you tend to get really good at one thing.
So I like to go out and teach and
try to help others as best I can.
And also,
almost every course I've ever taught,
I learned something from you all too.
But really, why I wanna teach this
course is so I can go on rants.
I love rants, I got on a lot of rants on
the podcast I'm on, Front End Happy Hour.
Where we have drinks, we talk about
front end things, and it's pretty good.
But again, it's just a platform for
me going on rants about things.
And what I really wanna go on rants
on is interviewing, because I have so
many good interview rants.
Don't worry, that's coming.
It's gonna be very exciting.
So the first question I wanna ask
everybody, and you don't say it out loud,
just think,
why is interviewing so difficult?
Yes?
>> It's mostly about fit for both parties.
So even if you have the skills,
it might not be a good fit.
>> Yeah, that's true.
Let's go a little broader, though.
Little broader.
>> You don't really know what to expect
what type of questions are gonna be there.
And it seems like every company
has their own standards,
so you don't really know
how to prepare for it.
>> Yeah, I like that one.
I think that's a bit more accurate on
why interviewing is just so difficult.
Because we all have this different
idea about what engineering is.
Thus, we all these different idea
about what engineering should be.
And we all have, honestly, kind of a
dishonest view of ourselves as engineers.
We have this idea of how we build
things and how we solve problems.
And we try to apply that rubric to
everybody else, but we're all different.
That's what makes us all beautiful
is we're all a little bit different.
And that's why you can't really just walk
in and say there's the SATs of interviews,
or something like that.
Because we all have just a little bit
of nuances that make us a little bit
different.
But at the end of the day,
I like to think why interviewing is so
difficult is because we're
all a little different and
because we all think a little
differently about what engineering is.
That makes it challenging.
So to break that down a little bit more,
I read this great blog post the other day,
and I encourage you to
read it at some point.
But this person, they broke it down and
they said there is essentially
three different types of engineers.
There are the engineers who
say engineering is just math.
It's all about the algorithm,
it's all about efficiency,
it's all about clever code and
manipulating numbers around.
Cuz at the end of the day, that's what
we're doing, we're flipping switches,
ones and zeros.
And that's what engineering is all about,
the algorithms, the beauty of it all.
Yeah, and often, that's why we get a lot
of algorithm questions in interviews.
People are trying to say does this
person think like a mathematician?
Does this person think in algorithms?
Do they look at a problem and
say Double sort,
yes, that is a great
algorithm to apply right now.
Another type of programmer is programming
is all about hardware performance.
It's all about that low level bit-lipping,
how close to the metal, do you understand?
Anybody know anybody like that,
the hardware people?
They're a different bunch.
They're good, too.
There's those type of people.
They're the hackers, the tinkerers.
Probably writing in assembly.
Trying to understand do you
understand what a CP register is?
Do you understand what the L1
cache is versus the L2 cache?
Performance questions.
That low-level base knowledge.
You get interview questions like that,
that really low level stuff.
And then, there's the third category of
engineers, the tinkerers, the builders,
however you wanna describe them,
that's where most people sit.
In our ideal world, we're like,
I'm all about performance.
Or I'm a math person, that's all I do.
But if you're a front end engineer,
generally, you're building things.
That's about talking to people,
understanding specs, understanding
different browser compatibilities.
All these edge cases,
all the things that we don't think
of as engineering, like meetings or
efficiently communicating your ideas,
that's the third category of people.
And that's where most of us lie.
But most interviews
aren't like that at all.
There's no interview
where you walk in you say
hey, have a seat, this is our designer.
Nice to meet you.
This is our product manager.
And we're gonna walk through
building a product today.
So we're gonna spec it out.
Gonna have you meet other engineers, and
we're gonna have you build
a product by the end of the day.
That would be closer to what
we do in the real life.
But that's not what happens at all.
So a lot of the disconnect with
interviewing comes from this idea of
we don't know what type
of engineers we are.
And we don't know what type
of engineers we wanna hire.
This is just my opinion.
There are many problems with interviewing,
but I think a lot of it comes from
we don't understand ourselves.
We don't understand what engineering is.